[title]: - "A welcome from the User Support Team"

Greetings from the OSG User Support Team
----------------------------------------

On behalf of the Open Science Grid User Support team it is a pleasure to welcome
you to the help desk portal!

The help desk is primarily intended for OSG users, i.e. students, postdocs,
faculty and staff doing science using the OSG. However we also provide technical
documentation and discussion forums for campus HPC resource providers and
systems administrators.  In particular, we describe [options for connecting
university-based HPC
centers](<http://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions/folders/5000209600>) to
the Open Science Grid, and support for campus-based [cyberinfrastructure
facilitators](<http://aci-ref.org/>) and [champions](<https://www.xsede.org/campus-champions>) on
all matters relating to OSG, [OSG Connect](<http://osgconnect.net/>), [CI
Connect](<http://ci-connect.net/>) and distributed high throughput computation.

Our extended support team consists of systems experts, computer scientists, and
Ph.D. level scientists experienced in distributed high throughput scientific
computation, data intensive computing, and wide area networking.  There is very
little we won't be able to handle, or point you to the right expert who can,
hopefully in timely enough fashion to meet your deadlines. 

We hope that you find the [knowledge
base](<http://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/solutions>) and educational
materials a useful resource, and that you will [engage with
us](<http://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/signup>) and others in
the [community
forums](<http://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/discussions>). Most
importantly, please [report any
problems](<http://support.opensciencegrid.org/support/tickets/new>) you
encounter, and feel free to send questions or feature requests. If needed our
support team can schedule a consultation with you, your research team or campus
HPC center support staff.  

We look forward to hearing from you!

Warm regards,

![Rob Gardner](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/OSGConnect/connectbook/master/assets/rob-signature.jpg)

[Rob Gardner](<https://www.linkedin.com/in/robertwgardner>)  


OSG User Support and Campus Grids Area Coordinator

[\@rwg](<https://twitter.com/rwg>)
